How do I change or cancel my accident and/or life insurance?

Changes to your group insurance benefits during the year may only be made as a result of a life event. Any such changes must be made within 31 calendar days of the event.

Please read the materials under Life Events for more details and to access the appropriate forms.

If you have questions regarding a life event, please call the CallCenter at +1 800 DELOITTE (+1 800 335 6488) for additional assistance.


How do I add my beneficiary?

To add your beneficiary for basic life, business travel accident, elective personal accident, optional life (or Partner/Principal Group Optional Term Life for partners/principals), the Benefits Enrollment Tool allows you to make your beneficiary designation online.  You may also complete the appropriate Insurance Beneficiary Designation Change Form and mail the original form to PSN Benefits at the address on the bottom of the form. You may add your benefciary designation at any time by completing and submitting the online form or a change form.

If you wish to add your 401(k) beneficiary, go to http://www.vanguard.com for the appropriate form and directions or call Vanguard Participant Services at +1 800 523 1188.


How do I confirm or change my beneficiary?

If you wish to confirm your current beneficiary designations on file for life insurance and/or 401(k), contact the CallCenter at +1 800 DELOITTE (+1 800 335 6488) and ask for that information.

To update your beneficiary for basic life, business travel accident, elective personal accident, optional life (or Partner/Principal Group Optional Term Life for partners/principals), the Benefits Enrollment Tool allows you to change your beneficiary designation online. You may also complete the appropriate Insurance Beneficiary Designation Change Form and mail the original form to PSN Benefits at the address on the bottom of the form. You may update your beneficiary designation at any time by completing and submitting the online form or a change form.

If you wish to update your 401(k) beneficiary, go to http://www.vanguard.com for the appropriate form and directions or call Vanguard Participant Services at +1 800 523 1188.



If a discrepancy exists between this document and the benefit to which you are actually entitled under any plan, the legal documents and laws that apply to that plan will govern. Nothing in this document shall limit the right of Deloitte LLP and its subsidiaries to change or eliminate any benefit. This document is not intended to be a guarantee of employment.