Update: Leave of Absence Program-USI
2016
Leave of Absence Program - USI
Introduction
Deloitte LLP and its subsidiaries located in India (USI or the Company) recognize that you might have a need for leave longer than that which is prescribed in the PTO program due to various reasons. The program described in this publication represents the Leave of Absence (LOA) Program as of March 21, 2016 for employees on USI payroll and provides guidance on the duration and reasons for which an extended leave with or without pay could be taken as applicable.
This program document may be modified, revised, discontinued or amended at any time, in whole or in part, for any reason and without prior notice, consent or approval within the sole discretion of USI. The program is intended to be applied in accordance with central, state, and local law. USI has absolute discretion to make the sole and final determination as to any and all issues arising out of this program, including, without limitation, issues pertaining to USI personnel. This program document contains proprietary and confidential information of USI. It is solely for use by and distribution to the individuals who are subject to this program.
The information provided in this publication is for information purposes only and does not constitute a contract of employment
Eligibility
In order to apply for a leave of absence, you must be a salaried employee and should be regularly scheduled to work at least 20 hours per week. Interns, temporary and seasonal employees, individuals who perform services as a contractor to USI, and employees on assignment from the U.S., are not eligible to participate.
What is a Leave of Absence?
The Leave of Absence Program encompasses all leaves that could be availed by eligible USI employees in addition to the PTO Program and Sabbatical Program. The USI Firms provide the following Leave of Absence Programs:
• Maternity Leave
• Paternity Leave
• Adoption Leave
• Bereavement Leave
• Unpaid Personal Leaves
While the organization is providing the LOA to support the professionals to manage certain personal situations, the professional has to carefully consider various aspects like impact on compensation, career progression etc. before requesting for LOA where needed.
Maternity Leave:
All women employees are entitled to Maternity Leave of 12 calendar weeks as per Maternity Benefits Act, 1961. A woman employee who has completed 80 days or more of continuous service with the Company is entitled to Maternity Leave with pay consistent with the Maternity Benefits Act. In addition, women employees are entitled to avail additional 14 weeks of paid leave in continuation with the 12 weeks, thereby providing for a total of 26 weeks of paid Maternity Leave. Women employees are encouraged to proceed on maternity leave at least 4 weeks prior to the expected date of delivery.
All women employees may also utilize any available PTO balance in their account either before or after the Maternity Leave
Click here to view the enhanced Maternity Leave Program FAQ.
Paternity Leave:
The Company recognizes that male employees may be required to provide support to their spouse or domestic partner following the birth of a child. Male employees who are Non-primary Caregivers can avail 5 days of paid leave following the birth of the child, subject to completion of 80 days of continuous service with the Company. When male employees become the Primary Caregiver (e.g. on the death or separation of the spouse or domestic partner soon after the birth of a child), the Company will provide 10 days of paid leave. This Paternity Leave needs to be taken within the first two months of the child’s birth and can be taken in not more than 2 installments.
A Primary Caregiver is defined as an employee who is the principal caretaker of his or her newborn child or child who has been placed for adoption. A Non-Primary Caregiver would be the secondary caregiver supporting the spouse or domestic partner.
Adoption Leave:
In the event of adoption of a child by a woman or male employee who is the Primary Caregiver, he or she will be granted 10 days of paid Adoption Leave, subject to completion of 80 days of continuous service with the Company. In case the employee is a Non-Primary Caregiver; 5 days of paid leave may be availed. This leave must be taken within the first two months post the completion of the legal adoption of a child and may not be taken in more than 2 installments.
NOTE: Maternity, Paternity, and Adoption leave are designed for each “parental event” (adoption or birth) and not for each child born or adopted at one time. Therefore, an employee giving birth to or adopting more than one child at a time would be eligible for only the period of leave allotted in this policy.
Bereavement Leave:
The Company recognizes that employees may need time off following the death of a family member. The Company will provide for 3 days of bereavement leave with pay in the event of the death of a spouse or significant other, child, parent, in-laws, sibling or comparable step relation (e.g. Step-father, Step- mother, Step child etc). This leave can be taken within one month of the loss.
Unpaid Personal Leave:
Employee are advised to use their PTO for meeting most of their time off requirements but there may be times when an unpaid personal leave is appropriate. Unpaid leave of absence is recommended for a minimum of 5 days and any need for leave below that should be taken as PTO under the USI PTO program guidelines. All eligible USI employees are eligible for the unpaid personal leaves described below at the discretion of the employee’s USI Service Line Lead or on the ground business leader after taking into account client service needs, office operations and any other such factor that impacts the business. USI will make every effort consistent with good business practice to grant requests for such unpaid personal leave.
However, there may be situations where it cannot be granted due to client service or business needs.
In order to participate in any of the leaves below you must first exhaust any accrued PTO.
The unpaid personal leave of absence can be requested to manage personal exigencies such as:
• Personal Illness
• Family Support Including Elder Care
• Extended Child Care After Birth Or Adoption
• Examination Preparation For Firm-Supported Certifications/Degrees
• Full Time Higher Education Programs
During the period of unpaid personal leave, including weekends and holidays if any, the employee will not receive any compensation. Also, employees on unpaid personal leave will not earn any PTO credit for the unpaid personal leave period.
In the event an unpaid personal leave of absence extends beyond 90 calendar days, the business may need to hire a temporary resource to fulfill the employee’s responsibilities. This will be decided by the respective USI Service Line Leader in consultation with the Lead Business Advisor. In addition, the business leader will discuss the possible impact to the career and the sustainability of this leave with the employee.
Employees on a LOA beyond 15 business days should keep their USI Service Line Leader or on the ground business leader informed through email / phone call about their date of joining back at least two weeks prior to the completion of their leave to allow for business planning.
Personal Illness:
All eligible USI employees may be granted an unpaid leave of absence in case of personal illness for up to 180 calendar days after completing one month of continuous service with the Company.
In rare and unique circumstances unpaid leave of absence for personal illness may be granted by the USI Service Line Leader or on ground business leader without the completion of one month of continuous service with the Company.
Family Support Including Elder Care:
All eligible USI employees may be granted an unpaid leave of absence in case of family support for up to 90 calendar days after completing one year of continuous service with the Company.
Extended Child Care after Birth or Adoption
All eligible USI employees may be granted an unpaid leave of absence for extended child care for up to 90 calendar days after Maternity/Paternity/Adoption Leave after completing six months of continuous service with the Company. This unpaid leave must immediately follow the Maternity/Paternity/Adoption Leave and with no break in leave. If there is a second installment of Paternity Leave, the last date of the second installment of Paternity Leave will be taken as the completion date for the purposes of this unpaid leave for extended childcare.
Examination Preparation for Firm-Supported Certifications/Degrees:
All eligible USI employees may be granted an unpaid leave of absence in case of examination preparation for USI-supported certifications/degrees for up to 90 calendar days after completing one month of continuous service with the Company.
Full Time Higher Education Programs:
All eligible USI employees may be granted an unpaid leave of absence in case of full time higher education programs that provide opportunities for strengthening leadership and/or management skills, building technical or industry competencies, or deepening business development capabilities related to the area of one’s work. Unpaid personal leaves for full time higher education programs may be granted for up to 180 calendar days after completing one year of continuous service with the Company.
Approval process for Leave of Absence Program
For availing the Leave of Absence Program, the employee should request written approval of the USI Service Line Leader or the on-the-ground business leader. Any such request for leave of absence which extends beyond 30 days, except for Maternity Leave, will also need the approval of the USI FSS leader.
Where the unpaid personal leave is for more than 30 calendar days, it is recommended that the leave of absence be requested at least 4 weeks prior to the start date and should state the number of days requested to allow for business planning.
Once approved, the professional will need to send the approval to the Employee Lifecycle Events (ELE) team at usileaveadministration@deloitte.com with a copy to their Resource manager, if applicable. The ELE team will update DTE accordingly for all leaves of absence except for Bereavement after validation of all approvals and certificates given below if applicable.
• Doctor’s certificate with expected date of delivery for Maternity leave
• Birth certificate / Hospital certificate of delivery for Paternity leave
• Proof of adoption for Adoption leave
• Doctor’s certificate for complications/illness arising out of pregnancy (miscarriage, MTP, tubectomy etc.) or delivery
• Doctor’s certificate for miscarriage or medical termination of pregnancy.
Bereavement leave will be entered into DTE by the employee under the bereavement leave code after receiving the approval from the USI Service Line Leader and/or on ground business leader.
Impact on compensation and benefits for an Unpaid Personal Leave of Absence
Benefits
Applicability during Unpaid Personal Leave of Absence
Insurance coverage (medical insurance, life insurance, accident insurance) and Car Lease
Insurance coverage will continue on same basis as an active employee for medical, life and personal accident insurance.
Where car lease is applicable, the employees will need to make the payment proactively for the period that they do not receive salary. For more details on this, please reach out to “US India Car Lease Administration (US - Hyderabad)”
PTO
PTO will not accrue during an unpaid personal leave
Provident Fund (India)
Provident Fund contribution will cease for the period for which employee receives no pay (i.e. duration of Unpaid Personal leave)
Statutory Benefits (like Gratuity)
Period of Unpaid Personal Leave will be counted towards statutory benefits
Other Benefits (Loans, transport reimbursement for expecting mothers)
No other benefit will be applicable during an Unpaid Personal Leave
Variable Pay
Variable pay will be prorated for the time worked during the fiscal year
Other items
Performance appraisal and promotions will be based on evaluation for the period of work in the appraisal period and as per the function specific promotion criteria.
IT Assets
To prevent non-compliance on IT related matters, Laptop and Firm issued PDA will need to be surrendered to the nearest ITS walk-up technician for unpaid personal leave beyond 60 days.